.\"	$NetBSD: asa.1,v 1.11 2002/02/08 01:36:18 ross Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd 9 мая 2002 г.
.Dt ASA 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm asa
.Nd interpret carriage-control characters
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
The
.Nm
утилита читает файлы последовательно, сопоставляя
.Tn ФОРТРАН
символы управления кареткой в управляющие последовательности линейного принтера,
и записывает их в стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Первый символ каждой строки интерпретируется как элемент управления кареткой.
характер.
Следующие символы интерпретируются следующим образом:
.Bl -tag -width ".Aq space"
.It Aq space
Выведите остальную часть строки без изменений.
.It 0
Выведите
.Aq newline
 символ перед печатью остальной части строки.
 .It 1
 Выведите
 .Aq formfeed
 символ перед печатью остальной части строки.
 .It \&+
 Замыкающий
 .Aq newline
 предыдущей строки заменяется на
 .Aq carriage-return
 перед печатью остальной части строки.
 .El
.Pp
Строки, начинающиеся с символов, отличных от указанных выше, обрабатываются так, как будто они
Начать с
.Aq space .
.Sh ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Чтобы просмотреть файл, содержащий выходные данные
.Tn FORTRAN
программа:
.Pp
.Dl "asa file"
.Pp
Чтобы отформатировать вывод
.Tn FORTRAN
программу и перенаправьте ее на построчный принтер:
.Pp
.Dl "a.out | asa | lpr"
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr f77 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
The
.Nm
полезность соответствует
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An J.T. Conklin ,
Winning Strategies, Inc.