.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)basename.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\"
.Dd 21 июня 2021 г.
.Dt BASENAME 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm basename , dirname
.Nd return filename or directory portion of pathname
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar string
.Op Ar suffix
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s Ar suffix
.Ar string
.Op Ar ...
.Nm dirname
.Ar string
.Op Ar ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
The
.Nm
утилита удаляет любой префикс, заканчивающийся последней косой чертой
.Ql \&/
персонаж присутствует в
.Ar string
(после первого удаления косых черт),
и
.Ar suffix ,
если дано.
.Ar suffix
не удаляется, если он идентичен остальным символам в
.Ar string .
Полученное имя файла записывается в стандартный вывод.
Несуществующий суффикс игнорируется.
Если
.Fl a
указан, то каждый аргумент рассматривается как
.Ar string
будто
.Nm
были вызваны только с одним аргументом.
Если
.Fl s
указано, то
.Ar suffix
принимается в качестве аргумента, а все остальные аргументы рассматриваются как
.Ar string .
.Pp
.Nm dirname
утилита удаляет часть имени файла, начиная
с последней чертой
.Ql \&/
персонаж до конца
.Ar string
(после первого удаления косых черт),
и записывает результат в стандартный вывод.
.Sh ВЫХОД СТАТУС
.Ex -std basename dirname
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Следующая строка устанавливает переменную оболочки
.Ev FOO
to
.Pa /usr/bin .
.Pp
.Dl FOO=`dirname /usr/bin/trail`
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr basename 3 ,
.Xr dirname 3
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
The
.Nm
и
.Nm dirname
коммунальные услуги, как ожидается, будут
.St -p1003.2
совместимы.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
The
.Nm
утилита впервые появилась в
.At v7 .
The
.Nm dirname
утилита впервые появилась в
.At III .