.\" Copyright 1997 John-Mark Gurney.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd 25 марта 2014 г.
.Dt BRANDELF 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm brandelf
.Nd mark an ELF binary for a specific ABI
.Sh СИНОПСИЯ
.Nm
.Op Fl lv
.Op Fl f Ar ELF_ABI_number
.Op Fl t Ar string
.Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
The
.Nm
утилита помечает двоичный файл ELF для запуска под определенным ABI для
.Fx .
.Pp
Возможные варианты:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar ELF_ABI_number
Обеспечивает брендирование с использованием предоставленного номера ELF ABI.
Несовместим с
.Fl t
вариант.
Эти значения присваиваются SCO/USL.
.It Fl l
Записывает список всех известных типов ELF в стандартную ошибку.
.It Fl v
Включает подробный вывод.
.It Fl t Ar string
Маркирует данные двоичные файлы ELF как
.Ar string
ABI type.
В настоящее время поддерживаются следующие ABI:
.Dq Li FreeBSD ,
.Dq Li Linux ,
и
.Dq Li SVR4 .
.It Ar file
Если
.Fl t Ar string
дано, это будет клеймо
.Ar file
быть типа
.Ar string ,
в противном случае он будет просто отображать брендинг
.Ar file .
.El
.Sh ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ
Статус выхода равен 0 в случае успеха и 1, если команда
сбой, если файл не существует, слишком короткий, не может быть правильно маркирован,
или запрошенная марка не входит в число известных типов и
.Fl f
опция не установлена.
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Ниже приведен пример типичного использования.
принадлежащий
.Nm
команда:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ed
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Rs
.%A The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc.
.%T System V Application Binary Interface
.%D April 29, 1998 (DRAFT)
.%U http://www.sco.com/developers/devspecs/
.Re
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
The
.Nm
Страница руководства впервые появилась в
.Fx 2.2 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Эта страница руководства была написана
.An John-Mark Gurney Aq Mt jmg@FreeBSD.org .