.\" $NetBSD: iconv.1,v 1.3 2008/03/20 11:35:44 tnozaki Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c)2003 Citrus Project,
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd 22 октября 2009
.Dt ICONV 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm iconv
.Нд утилита для конвертации кодировок
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl cs
.Fl f
.Ar from_name
.Fl t
.Ar to_name
.Op Ar файл ...
.Nm
.Fl f
.Ar from_name
.Op Fl cs
.Op Fl t Ar to_name
.Op Ar файл ...
.Nm
.Fl t
.Ar to_name
.Op Fl cs
.Op Fl f Ar from_name
.Op Ar файл ...
.Nm
.Fl l
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
конвертирует кодировку файла
.Ar файл
(или стандартного ввода, если файл не указан) из кодировки
.Ar from_name
в кодировку
.Ar to_name
и выводит
преобразованный текст в стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Доступны следующие параметры:
.Bl -tag -width 0123
.It Fl c
Предотвратить вывод любых недопустимых символов.
По умолчанию,
.Nm
выводит
.Dq недопустимый символ
указанный кодировкой
.Ar to_name
при встрече символа, который допустим в кодировке
.Ar from_name ,
но не имеет соответствующего символа в кодировке
.Ar to_name .
.It Fl f
Указывает имя исходной кодировки как
.Ar from_name .
.It Fl l
Выводит список доступных кодировок.
Обратите внимание, что не все комбинации
.Ar from_name
и
.Ar to_name
являются допустимыми.
.It Fl s
Тихий режим.
По умолчанию,
.Nm
выводит количество
.Dq недопустимых символов
в стандартный поток ошибок, если они имеются.
Эта опция предотвращает такое поведение.
.It Fl t
Указывает имя целевой кодировки как
.Ar to_name .
.El
.Sh КОД ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std iconv
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Конвертировать
.Pa file.txt
из IBM273 в UTF-8 и сохранить результат в
.Pa converted.txt :
.Pp
.Dl iconv -f IBM273 -t UTF-8 file.txt > converted.txt
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mkcsmapper 1 ,
.Xr mkesdb 1 ,
.Xr iconv 3
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
.Nm
соответствует
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Nx 2.0 , и появилась в
.Fx 9.0 .
