.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rwall.1	6.7 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.Dd 23 Апреля, 1991
.Dt RWALL 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm rwall
.Nd отправляет сообщение пользователям, вошедшим в систему на хосте
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar host
.Op Ar file
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
отправляет сообщение пользователям, вошедшим в указанный
.Ar хост .
Отправляемое сообщение 
может быть введено и завершено с помощью EOF, или оно может
находиться в
.Ar файле .
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Bl -diag
.It rwall: RPC: Программа не зарегистрирована
The
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
daemon не был запущен на удаленном хосте.
.It rwall: RPC: Timed out
Произошла ошибка связи.
Либо сеть
чрезмерно перегружена, либо
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
daemon завершилось на удаленном хосте.
.It rwall: RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out
На удаленном хосте не запущен portmapper (см.
.Xr rpcbind 8 ) ,
и не может поддерживать какие-либо службы на основе RPC.
Возможно, хост не работает.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8 ,
.Xr rpcbind 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Em Sun-OS .
.Sh ОШИБКИ
Параметры сортировки не реализованы.
