.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tee.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd 30 октября, 2022
.Dt TEE 1
.Os
.Sh имя
.Nm tee
.Nd копирование стандартного ввода
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl ai
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
копирует стандартный ввод в стандартный вывод,
делая копию в одном или нескольких файлах.
Вывод не буферизуется.
.Pp
Доступны следующие параметры:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Добавить вывод в файлы,а не
перезаписывать их.
.It Fl i
Игнорировать
.Dv SIGINT
сигнал.
.El
.Pp
Доступны следующие операнды:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar file
Путь к файлу для вывода.
.Ar file .
.El
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
принимает стандартное действие для всех сигналов,
за исключением случаев с
.Fl i
параметром.
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Отправить эхо-сообщение как на стандартный вывод, так и в
.Pa greetings.txt
файл:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ echo "Привет" | tee greetings.txt
Привет
.Ed
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
ожидается с
.St -p1003.2
совместимой.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.At v7 .
