.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)wall.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd Февраль 24, 2012
.Dt WALL 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm wall
.Nd написать сообщение пользователям 
.Sh КРАТКОЕ ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
.Op Fl g Ar группа
.Op Ar файл
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
The
.Nm
утилита отображает содержание
.Ar файла
или, по умолчанию, его стандартный ввод на терминалах всех пользователей в системе на данный момент.
.Pp
Только правообладатель имеет право писать в 
терминале других пользователей, которые решили 
отклонить сообщения или используют программу, которая 
автоматически отклоняет сообщения.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl g
Отправляет сообщения пользователям в данной группе.
Этот параметр может быть указан 
множество раз, и любой пользователь из любой другой указанной 
группы будет получать сообщение.
.El
.Sh СМОТРЕТЬ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mesg 1 ,
.Xr talk 1 ,
.Xr write 1 ,
.Xr shutdown 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
A
.Nm
команда появилась в PWB UNIX.
.Sh ОШИБКИ
Установка параметра отправителя
.Ev LC_CTYPE
используется для определения того, какие символы безопасно использовать 
в терминале, но не на терминале получателя (который
.Nm
не имеет возможности узнать об этом).
