.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)what.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd Декабрь 14, 2006
.Dt WHAT 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm what
.Nd "показывает, какие версии объектных модулей использовались для создания файла"
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl qs
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
, которая выполняет поиск в каждом указанном 
.Ar файле
последовательностей вида
.Dq Li @(#)
введенных с помощью
.Tn SCCS
или системы управления исходным кодом.
Она выводит оставшуюся часть
строуи, следующую за данным маркером, прямиком до нулевого символа, новой строки, двойных
кавычек,
.Ql \&>
символ, или обратной косой черты.
.Pp
Доступны слеующие параметры:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl q
Выводит только соответствующий текст, вместо его форматирования.
.It Fl s
Прекращает поиск в каждом файле после первого совпадения.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
Статус выхода равен 0, были найдены какие-либо совпадения, в противном случае равен 1.
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ident 1 ,
.Xr strings 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует 
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
Параметр
.Fl q
является нестандартным расширением
.Fx
которое может быть недоступно в других операционных системах.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.0 .
.Sh ОШИБКИ
Это переписанная версия одноименной команды
.Tn SCCS
и поведение может быть неидентичным.
