.\" Manpage Copyright (c) 1995, Jordan Hubbard <jkh@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by the FreeBSD Project
.\"      its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the FreeBSD Project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE CONTRIBUTOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Сентябрь 24, 2020
.Dt WHICH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm which
.Nd "находит программный файд в пути пользователя"
.Sh КРАТКОЕ ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
.Op Fl as
.Ar программа
ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
получает список команд и выполняет поиск в пути для каждого исполняемого файла, который был бы запущен, если бы эти команды действительно были вызваны.
.Pp
Доступны следующие параметры:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Перечисляет все найденные экземпляры (впесто перечисления только первого 
из каждого списка).
.It Fl s
Ничего не выводит, только возвращает 0 если найдены все исполняемые файлы, или 1,
если некоторые не были найдены.
.El
.Pp
Некоторые оболочки могут предоставлять встроенную команду
.Nm
которая похожа или идентична этой утилите.
Воспользуйтесь
.Xr builtin 1
странице руководства.
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Найдите команды
.Xr ls 1
и
.Xr cp 1
:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ /usr/bin/which ls cp
/bin/ls
/bin/cp
.Ed
.Pp
Такой же, что и указан выше, с определенным 
.Ev ПУТЁМ
и отображением всех появлений:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ PATH=/bin:/rescue /usr/bin/which -a ls cp
/bin/ls
/rescue/ls
/bin/cp
/rescue/cp
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm который
покажет дубликаты, если один и тот же исполняемый файл найден более одного раза:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ PATH=/bin:/bin /usr/bin/which -a ls
/bin/ls
/bin/ls
.Ed
.Pp
Ничего не выводит.
Только завершает работу с соответствующим кодом возврата:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ /usr/bin/which -s ls cp
$ echo $?
0

$ /usr/bin/which -s fakecommand
$ echo $?
1
.Ed
.Sh СМОТРЕТЬ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr locate 1 ,
.Xr whereis 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 2.1 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
Утилита изначально была написана на Perl и автором ее был
.An Вольфрам Шнайдер Aq Mt wosch@FreeBSD.org .
Текущая версия
.Nm
была написана на C 
.An Дэниелом Папасианом Aq Mt dpapasia@andrew.cmu.edu .
