.\"	$NetBSD: ypwhich.1,v 1.3 1996/05/13 02:43:46 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Christopher G. Demetriou
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Сентябрь 3, 2015
.Dt YPWHICH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ypwhich
.Nd возвращает имя хоста NIS-сервера для основной карты 
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar домен
.Oo
.Op Fl t
.Fl m Oo Ar mname Oc | Ar host
.Oc
.Nm
.Fl x
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
собщает, какой из
.Tn NIS
сервер предоставляет
.Tn NIS
услуги клиенту 
или который является основным для карты.
При вызове без аргументов он выдает
.Tn NIS
сервер для локальной машины.
Если
.Ar host
указывает, что машина направляет запрос на выяснение того,
какой из
.Tn NIS
серверов используется.
.Pp
Возможны следующие параметры:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar домен
Указывает домен, отличный от домена по умолчанию.
.It Fl t
Запрещает перевод псевдонимов карт 
в соответствующие им названия карт 
.It Fl m Op Ar mname
Находит основной
.Tn NIS
сервер для именованной карты.
No
.Ar host
может быть указан с параметром
.Fl m .
Аргументом
.Ar mname
может быть название или псевдоним карты.
Если
.Ar mname
опущено, то
.Nm
отобразит список доступных карт.
.It Fl x
Отображает таблицу псевдонимов карт.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr ypmatch 1 ,
.Xr yp 8 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr yppoll 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Тео де Раадт 
