.\"	$NetBSD: zdiff.1,v 1.5 2010/04/14 19:52:05 wiz Exp $
.\"	$OpenBSD: zdiff.1,v 1.2 2003/07/13 17:39:14 millert Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Todd C. Miller <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Joerg Sonnenberger <joerg@NetBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Sponsored in part by the Defense Advanced Research Projects
.\" Agency (DARPA) and Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Force
.\" Materiel Command, USAF, under agreement number F39502-99-1-0512.
.Dd Май 23, 2011
.Dt ZDIFF 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm zcmp ,
.Nm zdiff
.Nd сравнение сжатых файлов
.Sh КРАТКОЕ ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm zcmp
.Op Ar параметры
.Ar файл
.Op Ar файл2
.Nm zdiff
.Op Ar параметры
.Ar файл
.Op Ar файл2
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm zcmp
и
.Nm zdiff
это фильтры, которые вызывают
.Xr cmp 1
и
.Xr diff 1
соответственно для сравнения сжатых файлов.
Все указанные
.Ar параметры
передаются в
.Xr cmp 1
или
.Xr diff 1 .
.Pp
Если только
.Ar файл1
указан, то он сравнивается с файлом с таким же именем, 
но с удаленным расширением.
Когда указаны оба
.Ar файл1
или
.Ar файл2
любой из этих файлов может быть сжат.
.Pp
Расширения, обрабатываемые с помощью
.Xr gzip 1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
z, Z,
.It
gz,
.It
taz,
.It
tgz.
.El
.Pp
Расширения, обрабатываемые с помощью
.Xr bzip2 1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
bz,
.It
bz2,
.It
tbz,
.It
tbz2.
.El
.Pp
Расширения, обрабатываемые с помощью
.Xr xz 1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
lzma,
.It
xz,
.It
tlz,
.It
txz.
.El
.Sh ОКРУЖАЮЩАЯ СРЕДА
.Bl -tag -width "TMPDIR"
.It Ev TMPDIR
Это каталог, в котором размещаются временные файлы.
Если параметр не задан, то 
.Pa /tmp
используется.
.El
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width "/tmp/zdiff.XXXXXXXXXX" -плотный
.It Pa /tmp/zcmp.XXXXXXXXXX
Временный файл для
.Nm zcmp .
.It Pa /tmp/zdiff.XXXXXXXXXX
Временный файл для
.Nm zdiff .
.El
.Sh СМОТРЕТЬ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr bzip2 1 ,
.Xr cmp 1 ,
.Xr diff 1 ,
.Xr gzip 1 ,
.Xr xz 1
.Sh ПРЕДОСТЕРЕЖЕНИЯ
.Nm zcmp
и
.Nm zdiff
полагаются только на расширение файла, чтобы определить, сжатый ли этот файл 
или нет. 
Следовательно, следующие не поддерживаются в качестве аргументов:
.Bl -dash
.It
каталоги
.It
специальные файлы для устройств
.It
имена файлов, указывающие на стандартный ввод
.Pq Dq \-
.El
