.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 Tim J. Robbins
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd 1 апреля, 2020 
.Dt BIG5 5
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm big5
.Nd
.Dq "Big Five"
кодировка для текстов на традиционном китайском
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm ENCODING
.Qq BIG5
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Dq Big Five
это стандарт кодирования текстов на традиционном китайском языке.
Каждый символ представлен либо одним, либо двумя байтами.
Символы из набора ASCII представлены как
одиночные байты в диапазоне 0x00 - 0x7F.
Традиционные китайские символы представлены двумя байтами:
первый в диапазоне 0xA1 - 0xFE, второй в диапазоне
0x40 - 0xFE.
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr euc 5 ,
.Xr gb18030 5 ,
.Xr utf8 5
.Sh ОШИБКИ
Диапазон второго байта перекрывает некоторые символы ASCII, включая
0x5C
.Pq Ql e
и 0x7C
.Pq Ql |
что может вызвать проблемы при выполнении программ или
отображении.
Big5 считается устаревшим стандартом и сохраняется только для обратной
совместимости.
Новые документы и системы рекомендуется использовать UTF-8 напрямую.