.\"	$OpenBSD: dhclient.leases.5,v 1.4 2004/04/15 08:59:47 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 The Internet Software Consortium.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of The Internet Software Consortium nor the names
.\"    of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INTERNET SOFTWARE CONSORTIUM AND
.\" CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INTERNET SOFTWARE CONSORTIUM OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" This software has been written for the Internet Software Consortium
.\" by Ted Lemon <mellon@fugue.com> in cooperation with Vixie
.\" Enterprises.  To learn more about the Internet Software Consortium,
.\" see ``http://www.isc.org/isc''.  To learn more about Vixie
.\" Enterprises, see ``http://www.vix.com''.
.\"
.Dd 1 января, 1997
.Dt DHCLIENT.LEASES 5
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm dhclient.leases
.Nd "База данных аренды DHCP-клиента"
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
DHCP-клиент Internet Software Consortium ведет постоянную базу данных аренды,
которую он получил и которая все еще действительна. 
База данных представляет собой свободноформатный ASCII-файл, содержащий одно допустимое объявление 
на каждую аренду. 
Если для данной аренды появляется более одного объявления, используется последнее в файле. 
Файл записывается в виде журнала, поэтому это не является необычным случаем.
.Pp
Файл аренды называется
.Pa dhclient.leases . Ns Ar IFNAME , 
где
.Ar IFNAME 
представляет собой сетевой интерфейс, на котором DHCP-клиент получил аренду. 
Например, если
.Xr dhclient 8 
настроен для сетевого устройства 
.Li em0 
то файл аренды будет называться 
.Pa dhclient.leases.em0 .
.Pp
Формат объявлений аренды описан в 
.Xr dhclient.conf 5 .
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /var/db/dhclient.leases. Ns Ar IFNAME"
.It Pa /var/db/dhclient.leases . Ns Ar IFNAME
Текущий файл аренды.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr dhclient.conf 5 , 
.Xr dhcp-options 5 , 
.Xr dhcpd.conf 5 , 
.Xr dhclient 8 , 
.Xr dhcpd 8 
.Rs
.%R "RFC 2132, RFC 2131"
.Re
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An -nosplit
Утилита 
.Xr dhclient 8 
была написана 
.An Ted Lemon Aq Mt mellon@vix.com 
по контракту с Vixie Labs.
.Pp
Текущая реализация была переработана 
.An Henning Brauer Aq Mt henning@openbsd.org .