.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993, 1995
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	From: @(#)banner.6	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/29/95
.\"
.Dd June 21, 2021
.Dt BANNER 6
.Os
.Sh Название
.Nm Баннер
.Nd распечатайте большой баннер на принтере
.Sh Обзор
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl w Ar width
.Ar сообщение ...
.Sh Описание
.Nm Баннерпечатает большой баннер высокого качества на стандартном носителе.
Если сообщение пропущено, оно запрашивает и считывает одну строку из своего содержимого.
стандартного ввода.
.Pp
Выходные данные должны быть напечатаны на бумаге соответствующей ширины,
без перерывов между страницами.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width отступ
.It Fl d
Включает отладку.
.It Fl t
Включает трассировку.
.It Fl w Ar ширина
Измените ширину выходных данных с 132 на
.Ar ширина ,
подходит для узкого терминала.
.El
.Sh История
.Nm
Утилиты впервые появилась в
.At v6 .
.Sh Авторы
.An Mark Horton
.Sh Баги
Несколько
.Tn ASCII
символов не определены, в частности <, >, [, ], \\,
^, _, {, }, |, и ~.
Кроме того, символы ", ' и & выглядят забавно (но в то же время полезны).
.Pp
.Fl w
Опция реализована путем пропуска некоторых строк и столбцов.
Чем меньше он становится, тем зернистее получается результат.
Иногда он соединяет буквы вместе.
.Pp
Длина сообщений ограничена 1024 символами.
