.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)caesar.6	8.2 (Berkeley) 11/16/93
.\"
.Dd November 16, 1993
.Dt CAESAR 6
.Os
.Sh Название
.Nm caesar , rot13
.Nd decrypt caesar ciphers
.Sh Краткий обзор
.Nm
.Op Ar rotation
.Nm rot13
.Sh Описание
.Nm
утилита пытается расшифровать шифры caesar, используя статистику частотности английских букв.
.Nm Caesar
считывает данные со стандартного ввода и записывает их на стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Необязательный числовой аргумент
.Ar rotation
может использоваться для задания определенного значения поворота.
Если вызывается как
.Nm rot13 ,
будет использоваться значение поворота, равное 13.
.Pp
Частота встречаемости (от наиболее распространенной до наименее распространенной) английских букв выглядит следующим образом:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
ETAONRISHDLFCMUGPYWBVKXJQZ
.Ed
.Pp
Их частота в процентах выглядит следующим образом:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
E(13), T(10.5), A(8.1), O(7.9), N(7.1), R(6.8), I(6.3), S(6.1), H(5.2),
D(3.8), L(3.4), F(2.9), C(2.7), M(2.5), U(2.4), G(2),
P(1.9), Y(1.9),
W(1.5), B(1.4), V(.9), K(.4), X(.15), J(.13), Q(.11), Z(.07).
.Ed
.Pp
Повернутые проводки в
.Tn USENET
и некоторые базы данных, используемые
.Xr fortune 6
программы повернуты на 13 символов.
