.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed for the FreeBSD Project by Chris Costello
.\" at Safeport Network Services and Network Associates Labs, the Security
.\" Research Division of Network Associates, Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR
.\" contract N66001-01-C-8035 ("CBOSS"), as part of the DARPA CHATS research
.\" program.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The names of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 25, 2002
.Dt MACLABEL 7
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm maclabel
.Nd формат обязательной метки контроля доступа
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Если в ядре включен обязательный контроль доступа, или MAC,
то в дополнение к традиционным учетным данным
каждому субъекту
(обычно пользователю или сокету)
и объекту
(объект файловой системы, сокет и т.д.)
присваивается
.Em "MAC label" .
Метка MAC указывает необходимую информацию, относящуюся к конкретному субъекту или
объекту, необходимую для политики безопасности MAC
.\" .Pq Xr mac 9
для обеспечения контроля доступа к субъекту/объекту.
.Pp
Формат для MAC-метки определяется следующим образом:
.Pp
.Sm off
.D1 Ar policy1 No / Ar qualifier1 , policy2 No / Ar qualifier2 , No ...
.Sm on
.Pp
Метка MAC состоит из названия политики,
за которым следует косая черта,
затем указывается субъект или объект,
за которым при необходимости следует запятая и одна или несколько дополнительных меток политики.
Например:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
biba/low(low-low)
biba/high(low-high),mls/equal(equal-equal),partition/0
.Ed
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mac 3 ,
.Xr posix1e 3 ,
.Xr mac_biba 4 ,
.Xr mac_bsdextended 4 ,
.Xr mac_ifoff 4 ,
.Xr mac_mls 4 ,
.Xr mac_none 4 ,
.Xr mac_partition 4 ,
.Xr mac_seeotheruids 4 ,
.Xr mac_test 4 ,
.Xr login.conf 5 ,
.Xr getfmac 8 ,
.Xr getpmac 8 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr setfmac 8 ,
.Xr setpmac 8 ,
.Xr mac 9
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
MAC впервые появился в
.Fx 5.0 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Это программное обеспечение было внесено в проект
.Fx
NAI Labs, исследовательским подразделением по безопасности Network Associates
Inc.\& в соответствии с контрактом DARPA/SPAWAR N66001-01-C-8035
.Pq Dq CBOSS ,
в рамках исследовательской программы DARPA CHATS.
