.\" Copyright (c) 1996
.\"	Mike Pritchard <mpp@FreeBSD.org>.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Mike Pritchard.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd February 11, 1996
.Dt LOCATE.UPDATEDB 8
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm locate.updatedb
.Nd обновляет базу данных поиска
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm /usr/libexec/locate.updatedb
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
обновляет базу данных, используемую
.Xr locate 1 .
Обычно он проводится раз в неделю скриптом
.Pa /etc/periodic/weekly/310.locate .
.Pp
Содержимым вновь созданной базы данных можно управлять с помощью файла
.Pa /etc/locate.rc .
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
.Bl -tag -width /var/db/locate.database -compact
.It Pa LOCATE_CONFIG
путь к файлу конфигурации
.El
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width /var/db/locate.database -compact
.It Pa /var/db/locate.database
база данных по умолчанию
.It Pa /etc/locate.rc
файл конфигурации
.El
.Sh СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr locate 1 ,
.Xr periodic 8
.Rs
.%A Вудс, Джеймс А.
.%D 1983
.%T "Быстрый поиск файлов"
.%J ";login"
.%V 8:1
.%P pp. 8-10
.Re
